README.md, before:

ikrs.httpd
==========

A free tiny java written http server.





Changes
=======

[2013-03-09]
  - Yucca command LOGLEVEL built.
  - Yucca command VERSION built.
  - Commandline documentation written (see README).

[2013-03-06]
  - Added the response-characterSet (name) to the ResourceMetaData.
  - Slighty modified the custom_directory_handler example by adding
    the {DOCUMENT_ROOT} to the output; also added some fancy text-box
    stuff ;) ... actually this is the most important example class as it
    shows how to extend the HTTP handler without modifying the handler
    code!

[2013-03-04]
  - The STATUS command prints the current system configuration; there is
    a fix that hides sensitive data such das keystore and truststore 
    passwords (otherwise the passwords would be written into the log 
    files!).

[2013-03-02]
  - Solved the logger's log level issue; both (yucca and ikrs.http) now
    use the same logger instance.
  - Changed YuccaCommadFactory's command lookup order: parent commands 
    first, subclasses' commands later (makes it possible to override 
    existing commands).

[2013-03-01]
  - Enhanced the ikrs.util.session.Default- and AbstractSessionManager
    by adding a new (optional) 'threadSafe' param; this allows to tell
    the manager to use synchronized session maps and so does the 
    HTTPHandler now.

[2013-02-28]
  - Status code for 'Content-Range' responses changed to 206 (Partial
    Content); was still 200 before.
  - Added the ParametrizedHTTPException class to the ResponseBuilder
    to allow to override the status code/reason phrase at the error
    response builder.
  - The ResouceMetaData now has a last-modified field.
  - There is now an ETag class (Entity tag) and the OK response already
    uses the generated ETag hash for response headers.
  - The HTTPHandler now has a global DateFormat that should be used to
    generate Date strings in the required HTTP Date format; for details
    see http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html section
    14.18.
  - The '206 Partial Content' response now contains the 'Date' and 
    'Expires' headers (sent if the 'Content-Range' request is present).
  - Solved an issue with the DefaultDirectoryResource; in some cases an
    additional slash ('/') was added between the path base and the 
    linked file(s).

[2013-02-27]
  - EOI bug in ikrs.httpd.ReadLimitInputStream solved [reaching the 
    virtual end did not necesarily cause -1 but 0 (zero) to be 
    returned which caused an infinite loop in the RangedRessource's
    inputstream read procedures].
  - Implemented the ikrs.httpd.resource.ResourceDelegation and
    RangedResource class.
  - Implemented download recovery (from a specified byte position):
    the server now recognizes the 'Content-Range' header; some new
    classes were added and still need some testing, but the 
    ikrs.httpd.resource.RangedResource seems to work fine so far.

[2013-02-25]
  - Bug fixed in the ProcessableResource class: the open(boolean) method
    blocked on the system process's internal output buffer overflow.
    The output data is now being read while (!) the process is running.
  - New test script added to check if binary data (such as images) is
    correctly handled and displayed:
      {DOCUMENT_ROOT}/tests_and_examples/binary_test/load_image.php
  - The 'Status' header handled by the PHPHandler now applies the 
    original HTTP version number (from the request headers; was always
    1.1 before).
  - The PHPHandler now applies the generated MIME type (from the PHP 
    output headers) to the resource's meta data (default was text/plain
    before).

[2013-02-05]
  - Yucca's ConnectionHandler (TCP) instance can now be re-used (shared 
    instance). 
    This is set by the flag 'sharedHandlerInstance' in the server.xml 
    file.
  - The the directory list generator still used an old (not valid any 
    more) favicon URL. This is fixed.
  - Cleaned up document_root directory: moved all tests into the sub 
    directory 'tests_and_examples'.
  - Replaced the HTTPHandler internal maps by threadsafe versions (from 
    java's util.Collections class).!

[2013-01-23]
  - The AbstractPreparedResponse now uses the same HTTP version such as 
    in the request headers.
    This causes the server to send HTTP/1.0 replies when the request is 
    version 1.0 (response was always sent in version 1.1 before).
  - The default error document map is now configurable by 
    {USER_HOME}/.yuccasrv/ikrs.httpd.conf#ERROR_DOCUMENT.{STATUS_CODE}

[2013-01-16]
  - The HypertextAccessFile class now recoginzes the 'ErrorDocument' directive.
    Additionally the HTTP handler has a new method 'getDefaultErrorDocumentURI(...)'].
    Result: htaccess' ErrorDocument directives are now handled (though the default error document
    	    set is not yet configurable).

[2013-01-10]
 - The CGI PATH_INFO and PATH_TRANSLATED were fixed (contained corrupt values before).
 - The CGI environment vars DOCUMENT_ROOT, SCRIPT_FILENAME and REQUEST_URI were added.
 - The internal session now stores REMOTE_ADDRESS, REMOTE_PORT, REMOTE_HOST and also LOCAL_ADDRESS,
   LOCAL_HOST and LOCAL_PORT.
 - The ikrs.httpd.filehandler.CGIHandler class has an internal HEADER-to-CGI set now that explicitly
   allows a specified subset of HTTP headers to be mapped into the GCI environment.
   By default these headers are:
      - Accept
      - Accept-Charset
      - Accept-Encoding
      - Accept-Language
      - Connection
      - Cookie
      - Host
      - Referer
      - User-Agent
 - Tested the server with Drupal-7.15. Worked after some drupal configuration issues :)

[2013-01-09]
 - Additional error documents added.
 - Reqest-Line parser method fixed (for the case a fully malformed non-HTTP request was sent).
 - The session timeout is now configurable using the ikrs.http.conf file:
   {USER_HOME}/.yuccasrv/ikrs.httpd.conf#SESSION_TIMEOUT
 - The yucca command line is now extensible and capable to handle advanced httpd commands (none exist
   so far, though).

[2013-01-08]
 - There was an issue with the session timeout handling and it is fixed now. 
   Additionally I created a nested SESSION.INTERNAL child now holding the environment data used in the
   CGIHandler.
 - The file handler example now also shows how to use sessions.

[2013-01-07]
 - Some tests with customized file/directory handlers (htaccess, SetHandler) exposed a flaw inside the
   system when using non-existing files; it is now possible to configure FileHandlers by overriding the
   'requiresExistingFile()' method and mock the ResourceAccessor this way: you can now also pass virtual 
   URIs, if you want to.
   See the ikrs.httpd.filehandlers.IkarosExampleHandler for details.
   A configured example directory is located in the default document root at /custom_directory_handler.
   Try to request a non existing file or sub directory, such like /custom_directory_handler/not_existing
   and see what happens :)
 - The hexdump output of requested files during transfer is now restricted up to 10KB of data. Then the 
   output on stdout stops to avoid flooding.
 - ikrs.httpd.HTTPHeaders.read(...) still wrote debug data into stdout. The debug/info output was moved
   to ikrs.httpd.HTTPRequestDistributor.run().

[2013-01-05]
 - Built a nested htaccess evaluation. Before the application just searched up the document
   tree until the first htaccess file was found. That was not correct! *All* htaccess files
   upon the request path are now used; later occurrences override earlier stated stettings.
   The HyptertextAccessFile class got a new merge() method for this purpose.

[2013-01-03]
  - Moved ikrs.httpd.datatype.KeyValueStringPair to ikrs.util.KeyValueStringPair.
  - Added a handler method in HTTPHandler.rejectedExecution(...) that processes rejected requests fast and 
    painless.
  - SSL default example configuration issue solved.

[2012-12-21]
  - There is a new utility class: ikrs.io.fileio.FileCopy that can be used to copy files and nested directories.
  - The yucca main class now has a first-run-check. If the configuration files or -directory do not exist the 
    program performs a short survey and creates the config files and -directories automatically.
    The templates are located in '_.templates/'.

[2012-12-17]
  - File paths may now contain the '{USER_HOME}' placeholder (for yucca and httpd).
  - Renamed document root 'document_root_alpha' to 'document_root'.
  - Moved configuration directory '_.yucca/' to '{USER_HOME}/.yucca/'.
  - Buy in method ikrs.httpd.CustomUtil.classImplementsInterface(...) fixed.
  - DOCUMENT_ROOT is now configurable via .yuccasrv/ikrs.httpd.config#DOCUMENT_ROOT.
  - New yucca-commands: 'warranty' and 'license'.

[2012-12-16]
  - Changed package name from 'ikrs.http' to 'ikrs.httpd'.

[2012-12-15]
  - HTTP methods can now be disabled: ikrs.httpd.conf#DISABLE_METHOD.{METHOD} = { On | Off }

[2012-12-12]
  - INI-file parser added.

[2012-12-11]
  - The ConnectionHandler has a customizable init() method now which applies the whole yucca server config
    into the handler.
  - The yucca config has an (optional) 'httpConfig' node now that can be used to define additional custom
    config settings to the HTTP handler.
  - The filehandlers config is now defined inside the yucca config: httpConfig-node.

[2012-12-05]
  - The HTTP server is now capable to process HTTP TRACE.

[2012-12-04]
  - The HTTP server is now capable to process HTTP OPTIONS and HTTP HEAD.


[2012-11-27]
  - The socket manager ikrs.yuccasrv.socketmngr.BindManager supports secure sockets using SSL/TLS now.

[2012-10-29]
  - The 'filehandlers.ini' is now interpreted and contains the file handler mappings.
  - The htaccess 'SetHandler' and 'AddHandler' directives work now.

[2012-10-15]
  - HTTP POST works now with PHP (actually it was an unsolved php-cgi issue).

[2012-10-12]	
  - Replaced HTTPHandler.getServerName() by HTTPHandler.getSoftwareName() to avoid CGI name clash.
  - Built new HTTPHandler.getServerName() method.
  - Built basic CGI/1.1 handler.
  - Finished PHP POST handling.


[2012-10-11]
  - htaccess 'DirectoryIndex' implemented.
  - htaccess 'Options {+|-}Indexes' implemented.
  - New class for directory listings: ikrs.http.resource.DefaultDirectoryResource.
 
[2012-10-10]
  - The error response 405 (Method Not Allowed) now includes the 'Allow' header.

[2012-09-30]
  - Bug fixed: server sent an '200 OK' even if the external file handler reported runtime errors.

[2012-09-15]
  - htaccess 'Digest' authorization implemented (not apache compatible: ikrs.http.MD5).

[2012-09-03]
  - htaccess 'Basic' authorizaion implemented (apache compatible).

Commit message:

Yucca's command line did not allow additional whitespace chars; actually it was a regex problem in the ikrs.util.AbstractCommandFactory.parse() method

README.md, after:

ikrs.httpd
==========

A free tiny java written http server.





Changes
=======

[2013-03-13]
 - Yucca's command line currently did not allow additional white space
   chars between command name and additional arguments.
   Actually it was a regex problem in the 
   ikrs.util.AbstractCommandFactory.parse(...) method.

[2013-03-09]
  - Yucca command LOGLEVEL built.
  - Yucca command VERSION built.
  - Commandline documentation written (see README).

[2013-03-06]
  - Added the response-characterSet (name) to the ResourceMetaData.
  - Slighty modified the custom_directory_handler example by adding
    the {DOCUMENT_ROOT} to the output; also added some fancy text-box
    stuff ;) ... actually this is the most important example class as it
    shows how to extend the HTTP handler without modifying the handler
    code!

[2013-03-04]
  - The STATUS command prints the current system configuration; there is
    a fix that hides sensitive data such das keystore and truststore 
    passwords (otherwise the passwords would be written into the log 
    files!).

[2013-03-02]
  - Solved the logger's log level issue; both (yucca and ikrs.http) now
    use the same logger instance.
  - Changed YuccaCommadFactory's command lookup order: parent commands 
    first, subclasses' commands later (makes it possible to override 
    existing commands).

[2013-03-01]
  - Enhanced the ikrs.util.session.Default- and AbstractSessionManager
    by adding a new (optional) 'threadSafe' param; this allows to tell
    the manager to use synchronized session maps and so does the 
    HTTPHandler now.

[2013-02-28]
  - Status code for 'Content-Range' responses changed to 206 (Partial
    Content); was still 200 before.
  - Added the ParametrizedHTTPException class to the ResponseBuilder
    to allow to override the status code/reason phrase at the error
    response builder.
  - The ResouceMetaData now has a last-modified field.
  - There is now an ETag class (Entity tag) and the OK response already
    uses the generated ETag hash for response headers.
  - The HTTPHandler now has a global DateFormat that should be used to
    generate Date strings in the required HTTP Date format; for details
    see http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html section
    14.18.
  - The '206 Partial Content' response now contains the 'Date' and 
    'Expires' headers (sent if the 'Content-Range' request is present).
  - Solved an issue with the DefaultDirectoryResource; in some cases an
    additional slash ('/') was added between the path base and the 
    linked file(s).

[2013-02-27]
  - EOI bug in ikrs.httpd.ReadLimitInputStream solved [reaching the 
    virtual end did not necesarily cause -1 but 0 (zero) to be 
    returned which caused an infinite loop in the RangedRessource's
    inputstream read procedures].
  - Implemented the ikrs.httpd.resource.ResourceDelegation and
    RangedResource class.
  - Implemented download recovery (from a specified byte position):
    the server now recognizes the 'Content-Range' header; some new
    classes were added and still need some testing, but the 
    ikrs.httpd.resource.RangedResource seems to work fine so far.

[2013-02-25]
  - Bug fixed in the ProcessableResource class: the open(boolean) method
    blocked on the system process's internal output buffer overflow.
    The output data is now being read while (!) the process is running.
  - New test script added to check if binary data (such as images) is
    correctly handled and displayed:
      {DOCUMENT_ROOT}/tests_and_examples/binary_test/load_image.php
  - The 'Status' header handled by the PHPHandler now applies the 
    original HTTP version number (from the request headers; was always
    1.1 before).
  - The PHPHandler now applies the generated MIME type (from the PHP 
    output headers) to the resource's meta data (default was text/plain
    before).

[2013-02-05]
  - Yucca's ConnectionHandler (TCP) instance can now be re-used (shared 
    instance). 
    This is set by the flag 'sharedHandlerInstance' in the server.xml 
    file.
  - The the directory list generator still used an old (not valid any 
    more) favicon URL. This is fixed.
  - Cleaned up document_root directory: moved all tests into the sub 
    directory 'tests_and_examples'.
  - Replaced the HTTPHandler internal maps by threadsafe versions (from 
    java's util.Collections class).!

[2013-01-23]
  - The AbstractPreparedResponse now uses the same HTTP version such as 
    in the request headers.
    This causes the server to send HTTP/1.0 replies when the request is 
    version 1.0 (response was always sent in version 1.1 before).
  - The default error document map is now configurable by 
    {USER_HOME}/.yuccasrv/ikrs.httpd.conf#ERROR_DOCUMENT.{STATUS_CODE}

[2013-01-16]
  - The HypertextAccessFile class now recoginzes the 'ErrorDocument' directive.
    Additionally the HTTP handler has a new method 'getDefaultErrorDocumentURI(...)'].
    Result: htaccess' ErrorDocument directives are now handled (though the default error document
    	    set is not yet configurable).

[2013-01-10]
 - The CGI PATH_INFO and PATH_TRANSLATED were fixed (contained corrupt values before).
 - The CGI environment vars DOCUMENT_ROOT, SCRIPT_FILENAME and REQUEST_URI were added.
 - The internal session now stores REMOTE_ADDRESS, REMOTE_PORT, REMOTE_HOST and also LOCAL_ADDRESS,
   LOCAL_HOST and LOCAL_PORT.
 - The ikrs.httpd.filehandler.CGIHandler class has an internal HEADER-to-CGI set now that explicitly
   allows a specified subset of HTTP headers to be mapped into the GCI environment.
   By default these headers are:
      - Accept
      - Accept-Charset
      - Accept-Encoding
      - Accept-Language
      - Connection
      - Cookie
      - Host
      - Referer
      - User-Agent
 - Tested the server with Drupal-7.15. Worked after some drupal configuration issues :)

[2013-01-09]
 - Additional error documents added.
 - Reqest-Line parser method fixed (for the case a fully malformed non-HTTP request was sent).
 - The session timeout is now configurable using the ikrs.http.conf file:
   {USER_HOME}/.yuccasrv/ikrs.httpd.conf#SESSION_TIMEOUT
 - The yucca command line is now extensible and capable to handle advanced httpd commands (none exist
   so far, though).

[2013-01-08]
 - There was an issue with the session timeout handling and it is fixed now. 
   Additionally I created a nested SESSION.INTERNAL child now holding the environment data used in the
   CGIHandler.
 - The file handler example now also shows how to use sessions.

[2013-01-07]
 - Some tests with customized file/directory handlers (htaccess, SetHandler) exposed a flaw inside the
   system when using non-existing files; it is now possible to configure FileHandlers by overriding the
   'requiresExistingFile()' method and mock the ResourceAccessor this way: you can now also pass virtual 
   URIs, if you want to.
   See the ikrs.httpd.filehandlers.IkarosExampleHandler for details.
   A configured example directory is located in the default document root at /custom_directory_handler.
   Try to request a non existing file or sub directory, such like /custom_directory_handler/not_existing
   and see what happens :)
 - The hexdump output of requested files during transfer is now restricted up to 10KB of data. Then the 
   output on stdout stops to avoid flooding.
 - ikrs.httpd.HTTPHeaders.read(...) still wrote debug data into stdout. The debug/info output was moved
   to ikrs.httpd.HTTPRequestDistributor.run().

[2013-01-05]
 - Built a nested htaccess evaluation. Before the application just searched up the document
   tree until the first htaccess file was found. That was not correct! *All* htaccess files
   upon the request path are now used; later occurrences override earlier stated stettings.
   The HyptertextAccessFile class got a new merge() method for this purpose.

[2013-01-03]
  - Moved ikrs.httpd.datatype.KeyValueStringPair to ikrs.util.KeyValueStringPair.
  - Added a handler method in HTTPHandler.rejectedExecution(...) that processes rejected requests fast and 
    painless.
  - SSL default example configuration issue solved.

[2012-12-21]
  - There is a new utility class: ikrs.io.fileio.FileCopy that can be used to copy files and nested directories.
  - The yucca main class now has a first-run-check. If the configuration files or -directory do not exist the 
    program performs a short survey and creates the config files and -directories automatically.
    The templates are located in '_.templates/'.

[2012-12-17]
  - File paths may now contain the '{USER_HOME}' placeholder (for yucca and httpd).
  - Renamed document root 'document_root_alpha' to 'document_root'.
  - Moved configuration directory '_.yucca/' to '{USER_HOME}/.yucca/'.
  - Buy in method ikrs.httpd.CustomUtil.classImplementsInterface(...) fixed.
  - DOCUMENT_ROOT is now configurable via .yuccasrv/ikrs.httpd.config#DOCUMENT_ROOT.
  - New yucca-commands: 'warranty' and 'license'.

[2012-12-16]
  - Changed package name from 'ikrs.http' to 'ikrs.httpd'.

[2012-12-15]
  - HTTP methods can now be disabled: ikrs.httpd.conf#DISABLE_METHOD.{METHOD} = { On | Off }

[2012-12-12]
  - INI-file parser added.

[2012-12-11]
  - The ConnectionHandler has a customizable init() method now which applies the whole yucca server config
    into the handler.
  - The yucca config has an (optional) 'httpConfig' node now that can be used to define additional custom
    config settings to the HTTP handler.
  - The filehandlers config is now defined inside the yucca config: httpConfig-node.

[2012-12-05]
  - The HTTP server is now capable to process HTTP TRACE.

[2012-12-04]
  - The HTTP server is now capable to process HTTP OPTIONS and HTTP HEAD.


[2012-11-27]
  - The socket manager ikrs.yuccasrv.socketmngr.BindManager supports secure sockets using SSL/TLS now.

[2012-10-29]
  - The 'filehandlers.ini' is now interpreted and contains the file handler mappings.
  - The htaccess 'SetHandler' and 'AddHandler' directives work now.

[2012-10-15]
  - HTTP POST works now with PHP (actually it was an unsolved php-cgi issue).

[2012-10-12]	
  - Replaced HTTPHandler.getServerName() by HTTPHandler.getSoftwareName() to avoid CGI name clash.
  - Built new HTTPHandler.getServerName() method.
  - Built basic CGI/1.1 handler.
  - Finished PHP POST handling.


[2012-10-11]
  - htaccess 'DirectoryIndex' implemented.
  - htaccess 'Options {+|-}Indexes' implemented.
  - New class for directory listings: ikrs.http.resource.DefaultDirectoryResource.
 
[2012-10-10]
  - The error response 405 (Method Not Allowed) now includes the 'Allow' header.

[2012-09-30]
  - Bug fixed: server sent an '200 OK' even if the external file handler reported runtime errors.

[2012-09-15]
  - htaccess 'Digest' authorization implemented (not apache compatible: ikrs.http.MD5).

[2012-09-03]
  - htaccess 'Basic' authorizaion implemented (apache compatible).
